Hey there, Polycasters.
Rob here.
In the last episode
of "Polycast,"
I showed you how to bind to
sub properties in your markup.
But I totally forgot
to show you how
to bind to those same
changes in your JavaScript.
It's actually a
really cool feature
of Polymer called observers.
So let's check those out.
A declared properties
can have an observer
method that runs every
time that property changes.
And I showed how that worked
in a few episodes prior.
So if you haven't seen that,
you can go follow this link
right here to check that out.
But basically, what
I've got right here
is this x-unicorn element has
a property called sparkles
and an observer
that I've defined
called sparkles change, which
is this function down here that
will run any time
sparkles is updated.
So that's the first kind
of observer function.
And it's one that a lot of
developers are familiar with.
But one that we haven't
talked about yet,
which is really
cool, is the ability
to use this observer's array.
So, like the previously
mentioned observer method,
we can use this array to
specify a handler that should
run when a property changes.
And you do this by adding a
method name, which is a string,
to the array.
And in parentheses,
you put the property
that you want to observe.
So in this case, I have
a zombie manager element.
And my properties are
the zombies object.
My observers array has
one observer in it, which
is the zombies change function.
And it's looking at
the zombies property.
And anytime that
object is updated,
it's going to run this
handler right here
and get the new zombies object.
But there's a lot
more that we can
do with the observers array.
For instance, we can use it to
observe element sub properties.
So if I want to look
at zombies.hunger,
then I have it do that instead.
And that new value
with get passed
to this hungerChanged function.
What's really cool
is, we can actually
observe multiple properties
at the same time.
And what's great about that
is, if you have a method
that you want to run only when
those properties have a value,
this is a good approach to
use because that method right
there's not going to execute
if any of these properties
is undefined, or null,
or anything like that.
So if you have asynchronous
properties that
take a little while to
initialization or something
like that, rather than writing
some of the complex logic
to keep track of
all of them, you
can just use an observer to
watch multiple properties.
And when they all
finally have a value,
just kick off some function.
It's a really,
really handy trick.
Let me do a quick example to
demonstrate how observers work.
I've got this element
that I've created here.
And I've really
simplified it down,
so you're only seeing
the important parts
of the definition.
Up here, at the top, I've got
an image tag, which would be,
presumably, inside
of my template.
And then I've got this
binding for Blurb right here.
And that value is going to
come from my observer function.
So in my elements definition,
I have this bio property.
And that's an object,
which defaults to this guy
right down here.
So it's an object with a maker
property, which, right now, is
set to Dr. Frankenstein.
Any time this thing
changes, we're
going to run maker change.
We're going to
observe bio.maker.
And then we'll set this .blurb
equal to that new value.
And that is going
to go and update
our binding right up there.
So let's do that in practice.
Over here in the dev tools,
I've got my element rendering
right here.
I've already got it selected
in the elements panel.
So I can use my $0
trick to refer to it.
And I'll just say
$0.set bio.maker to Rob.
And that's going to update,
visually, right there.
Now, if you aren't familiar
with the set method,
you can check out our
previous episode, which
talked about using set
and notify path in order
to update elements
sub properties
and have those update bindings.
But this is kind of
like a useful way
of working with observers.
But there's actually one
last trick that observers
have up their sleeve.
Let's say instead of
just observing maker,
let's say that,
maybe, this object
had like 100 sub properties.
And I wanted to observe
if any of them changed.
It would be really annoying
to have to put all of those
into this one huge
observer function.
And so the last trick up the
sleeve of the observer array
is its ability to
look at wild cards.
So here I've changed
the code a little bit.
And now, instead of
looking at bio.maker,
I'm looking at bio.star.
And what that's going to do
is observe any sub property.
And if these were if
these were objects,
and they had more
sub properties,
they would just
observe all that stuff
inside of these bio objects.
It's a really
powerful technique.
And instead of passing
just a value, what Polymer
is going to pass to
our handler function
is going to be what is
referred to as a change record.
And a change record is sort of
like a special Polymer object.
And it has three properties.
It has a path.
And that is a
string which refers
to the path that changed.
So if we change bio.maker, this
path string would be bio.maker.
It has a value property,
which is the actual value that
was updated.
And then, finally, it
has a base property.
And the base property
refers to the object
that precedes the wild card.
So if we were looking
at bio.foo.bar.star,
then the base property
would be bio.foo.bar.
OK?
So what I'm doing here is,
in my bioChanged function,
I'm taking the change record.
And I'm looking at the path.
And if it's bio.maker,
I'm doing one thing.
I'm updating this binding.
If it's bio.name, I'm updating a
different binding, this critter
binding, which is going to
update the span right here.
OK, so over in our dev
tools, let's give it a shot.
So $0 set bio.name.
And we'll set that to Frank.
See, that updates
our first span.
And now, let's update
the other thing.
We'll set bio.maker to Rob.
And voila, that updates
our other binding.
So with observers
and change records,
we now have awesome
tools for dealing
with new data in our app.
And we're actually finally
ready to start talking
about binding to arrays.
But I'll save that for
the very next episode.
Now, if you've
enjoyed this episode,
consider clicking
the Subscribe button.
And if you have
questions for us,
you can ping us on a social
network of your choosing
at #askpolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching.
And I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]